- [Narrator] We're gonna start our encryption operations
with symmetric encryption.
And in order to do that, we need to create a shared key.
Let's jump into our IVE
and open up the crypto utilities project.
And in here, in source main Java,
I want to create a new package.
And the package that we're gonna create is going
to be com.frankmoley.crypto.symmetric.
Now, in that package, we're going to create
a new Java class file, and we're gonna call that
symmetric.encryption.utils.
Now, to this class, we're gonna create
a few data points here.
The first thing we're gonna do is private static
final string, and we will call that string AES,
and we will set its value to simply AES.
Now, I do this because I don't like magic strings
in my code, and really,
that's just good programming practice.
Now let's create a method to actually create
our secret key.
So public static SecretKey create AES key.
Now this is gonna throw an exception,
and for the purposes of this course,
we're not gonna actually catch that exception.
Let's go ahead and import that secret key
from Javex.crypto.
Now we're gonna ahead and create the key.
The first thing that I wanna do is I wanna use
the secure random class from Javex.security.
And I'm gonna create a new instance of that.
And we're gonna use that inner key generator here.
So let's create a key generator,
and we'll simply call it the same name.
And we're gonna do a key generator dot get instance,
and we're gonna pass at our AES string.
Now we need to actually init our key generator,
and we're gonna call it init with a key size
of 256 bit, and we're gonna pass it in that secure random
in order to seed the initialization.
And now we will simply return key generator
dot generate key.
That's all there is to it.
Let's go ahead and create a test now, so we can actually
go through and run this thing.
So we'll create that test.
Now, in order to implement our test, we're gonna
simply create an instance of secret key,
and we're gonna get it from the symmetric encryption utils
dot create AES key method.
Now, because of the way that this works,
we need to throw an exception from our actual method here,
and we will simply assert not null on the key,
and that's simply to make sure that our J unit
actually operates, but what I'd also like to do
is call a system dot out print line, and we're gonna use
a built in class called the data type converter,
and we are going to print a hex binary
of the key dot get encoded.
Now, this will get the biter rate and convert it into
a hex string, so that we can actually see it.
Let's go ahead and run our test.
We'll let compilation continue.
And our console window will pop up here.
And you will see that not only did our test pass,
but we got a nice hex string
that is the representation of our key.
Now, because this project has Maven built in,
I want to show you that we can pop open a terminal
window to where our code is actually located,
and we can run a Maven clean verify,
and it will actually do the same thing.
And that's the reason we brought Maven onto this,
and you can definitely do this if you don't want
to run it in your IDE, or if you're running this
through VI instead of the traditional IDE,
and I just wanted to show you that in order to get going,
but at this point, we've got an AES key,
we validated that we can create it,
so now it's time to encrypt some data.